#  The Spatiality of Hiroshima Peace Park and Nagasaki Peace Park

Following the end of WWII, the United States occupied Japan and established the Atomic Bomb Casualty  Commission (ABCC) in 1947.^[[John W. Dower, “The Bombed: Hiroshimas and Nagasakis in Japanese Memory,” in *Ways of Forgetting, Ways of Remembering: Japan in the Modern World* (New York: The New Press, 2012), 283-284.](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?8453528&uuid=fe744da9-33d0-4f82-b825-655ddd1e0c8e)] *Hibakusha* (a term for people affected by the atomic bombs) were faced with trauma, scientifically studied by the ABCC, and were faced with the presence of American censorship. In 1954, a Japanese fishing boat called Lucky Dragon No. 5, was caught in the nuclear fallout of the Castle Bravo Test in Bikini Atoll. This Lucky Dragon No. 5 incident led to an outcry of remembering the horrors of nuclear devastation, directly leading to memories of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.^[[Ibid., 21.](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?8453528&uuid=fe744da9-33d0-4f82-b825-655ddd1e0c8e)]

The atomic bombing of Hiroshima became a centre point for Japan's post-war identity of innocence, guided by the United States during their occupation from 1945-1952. As a result, the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park was created through the approval of both Japanese and American government officials to achieve this post-war identity. Hiroshima became a site for national mourning, framing the loss in the city as a loss for all of Japan. In Lisa Yoneyama's words, Hiroshima took on a 'nuclear universalism' as it became the world’s site of remembering a nuclear tragedy for all of humanity.^[[Lisa Yoneyama, *Hiroshima Traces: Time, Space, and the Dialectics of Memory* (Berkeley: University of California Press, 1999), 15.](www.search.library.utoronto.ca/details?8841555&uuid=25b7d20d-5892-4a4b-b234-2297f7dc31d5)]

The <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[67]._layers[1])">epigraph on the central cenotaph</a> reads: 
>"Please rest in peace (*yasuraka ni nemutte kudasai*), / For we shall not repeat the mistake (*ayamachi wa kurikaeshimasenu kara*).". 

Although the English translates to 'we', this subject does not exist in the original Japanese inscription. As a result, the subject is left ambiguous, thus naming no specific perpetrator or victim.^[[Ibid., 18.](www.search.library.utoronto.ca/details?8841555&uuid=25b7d20d-5892-4a4b-b234-2297f7dc31d5)] This anonymous epigraph reflects how the memory in Hiroshima is universalizing. Additionally, the epigraph builds upon the fundamental ideas of trying to associate Hiroshima with peace, and thus nuclear technology with peace. In fact, even Allied officials such as Douglas MacArthur supported the creation of Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park to "turn it into an international showcase for exhibiting the link between the atomic bomb and postwar peace."^[[Ibid., 20.](www.search.library.utoronto.ca/details?8841555&uuid=25b7d20d-5892-4a4b-b234-2297f7dc31d5)]. 

The park's space has a central alignment of the <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[67]._layers[8])">Prayer Fountain</a>,<a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[67]._layers[2])"> museum</a>, <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[67]._layers[1])">the cenotaph</a>, <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[67]._layers[9])">the Flames of Peace</a>, and the <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[67]._layers[7])">A-bomb dome</a>. The experience is curated so that once one enters through the east building of the museum, the individual exits through the main building facing northward; consequentially, viewing the central alignment. In addition, more green space is found on the northeast side of the park because of the A-bomb Dome located across the Motoyasu River. Because of this, there is a  <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[81]._layers[23])">dominant</a> path that is created due to the spatial configuration of the park.

One memorial of contestation was the the Monument in Memory of the Korean Victims of the A-bomb, which was initially erected in 1970 outside of the central park zone, <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[67]._layers[6])">westwards across the Honkawa River</a>. In 1990, there was a proposal to relocate and change the memorial. Its location was especially problematized for its location outside of the park's boundaries. It was rare for visitors to approach the western side of the park due to the majority of memorials erected in the centre and eastern side.^[[Ibid., 125.](www.search.library.utoronto.ca/details?8841555&uuid=25b7d20d-5892-4a4b-b234-2297f7dc31d5)] In addition, public transportation made it likely for visitors to enter through the eastern boundaries (especially from the south) because it was a downtown district, unlike the residential area of the west.^[[Ibid., 6.](www.search.library.utoronto.ca/details?8841555&uuid=25b7d20d-5892-4a4b-b234-2297f7dc31d5)] This spatiality demonstrated that the Korean memorial was marginalized from the official memories in Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park. This is significant because the spatial configuration of the Memorial Peace Park reveals Japanese interests for an identity of post-war innocence and American interests for memory of international peace through nuclear universalization. One way of doing this was through the marginalization of the commemoration of Korean victims, which was a memory of Japan's pre-1945, imperial identity.  
The proposal in 1990 started a crisis and debate around the Korean memorial throughout the 1990s. An agreement was eventually reached and it was moved to its <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[67]._layers[5])">present location</a> inside of the park's boundaries in 1999.

Furthermore, the spatial layout of Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park is contrastive to Nagasaki Peace Park which is split into three zones: <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[17]._layers[18])"> Wish Zone</a>, <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[17]._layers[19])">Prayer Zone</a>, and <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[17]._layers[20])">Learning Zone</a>. Each of these zones are separated by roads and are surrounded by residential housing, commercial buildings, a baseball field and a community centre. This memorial is less formalized and relatively non-cohesive in comparison to the distinct space set out and planned in Hiroshima. Because there was no specifically intended curation of the monuments and zones, there is subsequently no distinct path that a tourist or visitor follows. Rather, a person can move through the zones freely; though, the most intuitive path takes the <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[81]._layers[24])">path from the Wish Zone, Prayer Zone, to the Learning Zone</a>. The loose geographic connections and zones reflect the memory making process in Nagasaki that has allowed more open avenues of memorialization. 

The diversity in memory is supported by the Peace Symbols Zone, which is made up of monuments and memorials that were donated into the park. It even includes a monument from the no longer existing, <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[60]._layers[15])">German Democratic Republic (East Germany)</a>. 
In addition, there is a <a href="javascript:locateMapFeature(projectMap._layers[60]._layers[14])">Korean Atomic Bomb Victims' Memorial</a> found in the Prayer Zone of the park. An excerpt of the inscription found in Korean, Japanese, and English reads: "Here, we apologize to Korea and Koreans for the immeasurable suffering that we inflicted upon them during those tragic years [of Japanese colonization]." Therefore, this memorial is much more outright in mentioning Japanese Empire and using a Japanese word to refer to ethnic Koreans which includes North Koreans; the memorial in Hiroshima uses a term that is used more so to refer to South Koreans. There is a greater space for openness and reflection in who and what is remembered. Therefore, the spatiality of Nagasaki Peace Park is reflective of the diversity in memory of the history of Nagsaki.

In conclusion, the spatial configuration of Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park and Nagasaki Peace Park each reflect how the A-bomb is remembered. Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park remembers the A-bomb as a site of national and universal remembrance, which is reflected in the curated path that has been created based on the park's layout. In contrast, Nagasaki Peace Park remembers the A-bomb as a site of more local tragedy with discursive opportunities of remembrance because of the less curated, three-zone exploration type of layout created.

Memorials are important because they are not static objects. They are ways for people to encounter the past, reveal the interests of the present in their constructions, and impact the memory of future generations. Therefore, the spatial elements of a memorial site is essential to understanding how memory is formed at a site of remembrance. 


