# Declassifying the Crash

The dangers of nuclear technology are in integral need of interrogation even to this day. This is because of the dangers and risks that governments alike the United States (US) have held from the public. The 1961 Goldsboro Nuclear Accident is one of several nuclear accidents throughout the Cold War, where the domestic population were put at risk of radiation and/or a nuclear explosion. However, these decisions were made in secret amidst the Cold War for nuclear hegemony and to create a perception of perceived safety about nuclear technology. Government reports continue to be declassified about nuclear technology, and documents on the Goldsboro Accident were <a href="https://nsarchive2.gwu.edu/nukevault/ebb475/">declassified recently in 2014.</a> Therefore, how does the 1961 Goldsboro Nuclear Accident reveal the process of framing nuclear technology as ‘safe’? Why is it significant that Lt. Jack ReVelle recorded his oral history in 2019, over 50 years after the incident? How does the ‘risk perception’ of nuclear technology during the Cold War, connect to ‘risk perception’ of nuclear power today? Jack ReVelle’s oral history reveals how the US government constructed an idea of ‘safety’ around nuclear technology that still remains to the present day.

To begin, Jack ReVelle says that he was called to the scene of the accident with the task of uncovering the nuclear weapons. Upon arrival,  <a href="javascript:seek(62)">the status of the weapons was unknown</a> which meant there was unprecedented risk for him and his ten-person crew. The risk heightened as <a href="javascript:seek(116)">the second weapon was found to be switched to the ‘arm’ position.</a> This section of his oral testimony reveals the direct risks placed on the military personnel to handle the nuclear weapons. ReVelle continues to say that the next day, <a href="javascript:seek(141)">he began to write a letter to his parents</a>, implying that he was aware he could die doing this task. The dangers of nuclear weapons was a well known reality and burden for the military personnel including ReVelle.

In addition, this event reveals how close the possibility was for an accidental nuclear detonation to occur in the US, risking the death of innocent civilians. Declassified files from the Sandia Laboratory reveal that this risk was worth taking in the eyes of the US government. Nuclear accidents were in part caused because of the plan to keep nuclear weapons in a state of readiness. The 1959 document *A Survey of Nuclear Weapon Safety Problems and the Possibilities For Increasing Safety in Bomb and Warhead Design*, reveals that dangers to the public were worth the risk in the process of mass producing nuclear weapons. The document’s safety assessment states that, **“It may seem uncomfortable, but maintaining a nuclear capability in some state of readiness is fundamentally a matter of playing percentages."**^[[ Sandia Corporation, with the Advice and Assistance of the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory and the University of California Ernest O. Lawrence Radiation Laboratory, 14.](https://nsarchive2.gwu.edu/nukevault/ebb475/docs/doc%203%20sandia%201959.pdf)] The US government did do evaluations and studies of the safety of their nuclear weapons, but the development and presence of nuclear weapons ultimately always risked a form of danger to the public. ReVelle makes an important comment on this fact, that <a href="javascript:seek(159)">the east cost of the US would have fundamentally changed if the nuclear weapon had exploded; or even caused another world war.</a> The key is that the US government already knew about this risk before the 1961 Goldsboro Accident occurred, and before ReVelle could come to this realization. 

## Beyond North Carolina, Looking to Hiroshima and 'Peace' 

Furthermore, the introduction to Jack ReVelle’s oral testimony makes a key connection of the 1961 Goldsboro Accident to <a href="javascript:seek(17)">the nuclear bombing of Hiroshima.</a> Ultimately, these two events are interconnected as they are a part of a connected history of nuclear technology development in the US. Importantly, they are also connected in the efforts of the US government to construct a ‘peaceful’ identity surrounding nuclear technology from the 1950s. The phrase ‘Atoms for Peace’ was coined by President Dwight Eisenhower in <a href="https://youtu.be/2B8R-umE0s0">a speech given to the United Nations in 1953.</a>^[[ Ichiyo, 179.](https://resolver-scholarsportal-info.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/resolve/14649373/v14i0002/171_tboanaonbapp.xml)] At this point, the US had begun a nuclear development program as the tensions of the Cold War escalated following the Soviet Union’s successful hydrogen bomb detonation in 1949. ‘Atoms for Peace’ did not simply construct a notion of ‘safety’ because it could prevent a war between the US and the Soviet Union. Rather, the association of ‘peace’ with nuclear technology was directly related to the development of nuclear power. In a 1987 Sandia Report titled, *A Review of the US Nuclear Weapon Safety Program – 1945-1986*, it stated that, **“The continued existence and general deployment of nuclear weapons implies that decision makers and the general populace presume that they are exceptionally safe and secure.”**^[[ R.N. Brodie, 7.](https://nsarchive2.gwu.edu/nukevault/ebb475/docs/doc%206%20sandia%201986%20(1).pdf)]  Nuclear power provided a way to ensure the protection of nuclear materials, increase a commercial sector, and provide a way for the public to have a ‘peaceful’ use of nuclear technology.^[[ Ichiyo, 179.](https://resolver-scholarsportal-info.myaccess.library.utoronto.ca/resolve/14649373/v14i0002/171_tboanaonbapp.xml)]

US efforts for peaceful use of nuclear technology was exceptionally strong in Japan, as Hiroshima and Nagasaki were symbols of victims to nuclear weapons. The 1956 “Atoms for Peace” exhibit and 1958 Recovery Expo were presented in Hiroshima by the US. The goal of promoting nuclear technology as peaceful in Hiroshima **“was to disassociate the bomb from nuclear energy.”**^[[ Zwigenberg, 115.](https://search.library.utoronto.ca/details?9947299)] This background of US efforts surrounding ‘peace’ and ‘nuclear technology’ reflects a very contradictory fact in Japan. How does Japan, the one country that was a victim to nuclear weapons, also have nuclear power plants? There is a lot of scholarship tackling this question, and it goes beyond the scope of this essay. However, it is important to note that the idea of peaceful living with nuclear power is still a prominent issue to the present day. In Japan, the 3/11 Disaster marked another reminder of the dangers and contradictions of nuclear technology. The Fukushima Daiichi plant’s destruction has led to continued issues of leaking radiation, and proposals to <a href=https://www.theguardian.com/world/2020/oct/23/fukushima-reactor-water-could-damage-human-dna-if-released-says-greenpeace> release contaminated water into the ocean remains a prominent issue in 2020.</a> In Ontario, Canada, nuclear power is used for energy through the Pickering Nuclear Generating System. The development of nuclear power is interconnected to the development of nuclear weapons. The public perception of ‘safety’ around nuclear technology was a constructed effort, and it is an issue close to home. 

## Conclusion 

In conclusion, Jack ReVelle’s oral testimony reveals how US efforts to associate nuclear technology with ‘peace’ is a reality lived in the present day. The secrecy surrounding nuclear accidents during the Cold War meant that the US government risked citizen’s lives for the possibility of a nuclear war. Jack ReVelle realized the possible impact of the 1961 Goldsboro Nuclear Accident (i.e., civilian death, world war), but the US government already calculated that risk beforehand and it was deemed acceptable. In addition, Jack ReVelle recorded his story in 2019 which coincides with the declassification of documents over 50 years after the event. This leads to further reflection on how personal, oral histories are still influenced by systems of power and censorship of information. Moving forward, it is important to re-evaluate how much our own lives have been impacted by this history of nuclear development and its ‘peaceful’ identity. 



***Image Credits:***
<a href="https://nsarchive2.gwu.edu/nukevault/ebb475/">[National Security Archive], </a> 
<a href="https://media4.s-nbcnews.com/j/newscms/2016_21/1552706/160526-hiroshima-0852_61da40643e504bf8d4a099b5b1334bfb.fit-2000w.jpg">[NBC News], </a>
<a href="https://storycorps.org/stories/the-man-who-disabled-two-hydrogen-bombs-dropped-in-north-carolina/">[Storycorps], </a>
<a href="https://www.nuclearsafety.gc.ca/images/radiation-information/cell-damage-eng.jpg">[Government of Canada], </a>
<a href="https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/1a/Goldsboro-B-52_buried_bomb.jpg">[Wiki Images].</a>
